# 葛底斯堡演说 / Gettysburg-Olizere</p>
<p>Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.</p>
<p>Apuqu ogtosem senva enehanod, ut hy plimylusd inulud ana novo luskra apu trak omiftera, tat unserlu apu anemoera, et kebedlu utë očelus avoralu de anaera ty sautau.</p>
<br>
<p>Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this.</p>
<p>Apuau ut utnaqaud ana sugety luskra-onfliku, tat trataqau woi trak luskra, ur ikil luskrad tat unserlu et kebedlu apu traknol, bankusauvo sarismasrë. Ut salutaulud apu ana onflikteris de šod onfliku. Ut utnaqaud utat trakkum utë kebedrëd ana avaba de trak tera, letbrusrë ana atemty apsteikum utë šodlus tat kebedaulu twi hy eltënol utat letlu trak luskra bankuslurë sarisauau. Ut hy eramd očery naturaud saluty et faktos.</p>
<br>
<p>But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate — we can not consecrate — we can not hallow — this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us — that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion — that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain — that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom — and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.</p>
<p>Odëm, apu ana rakamas yumesil, u bankusrërë kebedauau - aterauau - letkamuiauau - trak tera. Sraimaulu ty onflikeralusd, tat eltënau et ipeau, ateraulud twi et naturauaud ulusmasep trat ut utirisrë ur inurisrë ty. Aukum yerofaweprë, et brofery totihrë tat ut saitlud woiu, odëm taury hitotrë tat piatus dusotlud woiu. Apu ut tat eltënau antiry, kebedrëd apu piatus tat onfliklud utë ty uaberaty eramd, sarisau novorisd. Antity utë ut apu trakkum kebedaud apu sarisau ty yumerisd apuqu ut - et era trak tëntety ipelusd, ut kamuiepau apu piatus atemry kebedvaslulud sendieud ty eramd - et apuau ut ulusry alizkoaud tat šodlus uipelulu kot usil - et trak luskra apute mallus haksrë ana novo avorakum de anemoerad - et šod krarakra de piatus, apu piatus, utat piatus, malinurërë era aukum.</p>
<br>
<p>时间：2022-06-18</p>